# LIRC - Linux Infrared Remote Control README.

    Copyright (C) 1996 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de>
    Copyright (C) 1998-2010 Christoph Bartelmus <lirc@bartelmus.de>
    Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
    (according to GNU General Public Licence 2.0 or later)

## General

This is the README file for LIRC, the Linux Infrared Remote Control
package. The main documentation of this package is available in HTML
format at http://lirc.org. After building the documentation is also
available at doc/html/index.html.

Updated versions of lirc is available using the website http://lirc.org.

## Last version: 0.9.2

## Build and install.

More complete build and install instructions are available in the
manual, the Installation chapter. The fast track:

    $ ./configure
    $ make
    $ sudo make install

If you are upgrading from an older version of LIRC take a look at the
NEWS file which contains all user visible changes between
releases. Also at least read the "Updating from lirc-x.y.z" sections
in the main documentation.


## What is LIRC?

LIRC is a package that allows you to decode and send infra-red signals
of many (but not all) commonly used remote controls.
Pre-release versions are currently available at the LIRC homepage:
http://www.lirc.org/

Former versions focused on home-brew hardware connected to the serial
or parallel port. Descriptions how to build this hardware can be found
on the LIRC homepage. Current versions of LIRC also support a variety
of other hardware. An up-to-date list of all supported devices and the
status of the according drivers is available on the LIRC homepage.

The most important part of LIRC is the lircd daemon that will decode
IR signals received by the device drivers and provide the information
on a socket. It will also accept commands for IR signals to be sent if
the hardware supports this. The second daemon program called lircmd
will connect to lircd and translate the decoded IR signals to mouse
movements. You can e.g. configure X to use your remote control as an
input device.

The user space applications will allow you to control your computer
with your remote control. You can send X events to applications, start
programs and much more on just one button press.  The possible
applications are obvious: Infra-red mouse, remote control for your TV
tuner card or CD-ROM, shutdown by remote, program your VCR and/or
satellite tuner with your computer, etc.

Adding new remotes is still problematic but since version 0.5.2 there
is a program (irrecord)  that will try to add new remote controls
automatically.

Don't expect much documentation. This is only a pre-release version
and there is still much to be done before LIRC becomes easily
configurable and usable.
For people with a little C/C++ knowledge this should already be possible
with this pre-release. Otherwise, wait for version 1.0.

